en/README.md, before:

# Data science before coding

This repository was planned for those who don't know how to code, but work or want to work with data science 🙃

> If you already code and want a repo with a faster pace, check out [this one](https://github.com/ivanovitchm/datascience_one_2019_1) 😎

### Disclaimer

This is a collaborative repository, created by the students of [Instituto Metrópole Digital](imd.ufrn.br) from [UFRN](ufrn.br).

The author of each notebook is properly acknowledged 😉 

## Choosing a tool

Several tools are available for this profile.

In general, they can be grouped into GUI tools and CLI tools:
- GUI (graphical user interface): All the user interaction is done graphically. These are software like Google Spreadsheets and [Orange3](https://orange.biolab.si). 
- CLI (command-line interface): User interaction is done through a programming language. The main open source languages used in data science are Python, R, and Julia.

A very nice alternative that gathers a bit of both worlds are interactive notebooks, originally from project Jupyter and currently supported also by Google Colaboratory.

[This post](https://medium.com/@leobezerra_90682/python-r-messi-and-cristiano-d2b5278dbd5a) discusses the main supported languages.

In this repo, we will use notebooks with the Python ecossystem and its main library, Pandas.

> The whole material was planned so you don't need to learn how to code, but if you do want to, check out this [this repo](https://github.com/leobezerra/python-zero).

## Meeting Pandas

#### [[jonathanjalles]](https://github.com/jonathanjalles)[[leobezerra]](https://github.com/leobezerra) First steps
[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/leobezerra/pandas-zero/blob/master/en/notebooks/First_steps.ipynb)
[![Binder](https://mybinder.org/badge_logo.svg)](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/leobezerra/pandas-zero/master/)

<!--
#### [[natanlimas]](https://github.com/natanlimas) Dataframes como bancos de dados 

[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/leobezerra/pandas-zero/blob/master/pt-br/notebooks/DataframeBD.ipynb)
[![Binder](https://mybinder.org/badge_logo.svg)](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/leobezerra/pandas-zero/master/)

#### [[kallil12]](https://github.com/kallil12) Análise e apresentação de dados

[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/leobezerra/pandas-zero/blob/master/pt-br/notebooks/Visualizacao.ipynb)
[![Binder](https://mybinder.org/badge_logo.svg)](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/leobezerra/pandas-zero/master/)

#### [[mildo]](https://github.com/mildo) Extração, transformação e carga de dados (ETL)

[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/leobezerra/pandas-zero/blob/master/pt-br/notebooks/ETL.ipynb)
[![Binder](https://mybinder.org/badge_logo.svg)](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/leobezerra/pandas-zero/master/)

> Os notebooks acima foram originalmente criados pelos autores indicados e posteriormente revisados com a adição de conteúdos de múltiplos autores deste repositório.

## Trabalhando com múltiplas bases de dados

Uma das possibilidades que ferramentas CLI abre é trabalhar com múltiplas bases de dados ao mesmo tempo.

Os notebooks abaixo são alguns exemplos de análises que agregam informações espalhadas em múltiplas bases.

#### [[leobezerra]](https://github.com/leobezerra) Unindo informações de múltiplas bases
[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/leobezerra/pandas-zero/blob/master/pt-br/notebooks/UFRN-diversidade.ipynb)
[![Binder](https://mybinder.org/badge_logo.svg)](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/leobezerra/pandas-zero/master/)

#### [[leobezerra]](https://github.com/leobezerra) Cruzando informações de múltiplas bases
[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/leobezerra/pandas-zero/blob/master/pt-br/notebooks/UFRN-disciplinas.ipynb)
[![Binder](https://mybinder.org/badge_logo.svg)](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/leobezerra/pandas-zero/master/)

## Explorando seus dados

Uma parte essencial do processo de ciência de dados é investigar de forma exploratória os seus dados.

Os notebooks a seguir apresentam conceitos importantes sobre distribuições, relações entre dados e análise interativa de dados.

#### [[kallil12]](https://github.com/kallil12) Visualizando e identificando distribuições
[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/leobezerra/pandas-zero/blob/master/pt-br/notebooks/Distribuição_Dados.ipynb)
[![Binder](https://mybinder.org/badge_logo.svg)](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/leobezerra/pandas-zero/master/)

#### [[mildo]](https://github.com/mildo) Relações entre características
[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/leobezerra/pandas-zero/blob/master/pt-br/notebooks/Relações.ipynb)
[![Binder](https://mybinder.org/badge_logo.svg)](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/leobezerra/pandas-zero/master/)

#### [[jonathanjalles]](https://github.com/jonathanjalles) Interagindo visualmente com dados
[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/leobezerra/pandas-zero/blob/master/pt-br/notebooks/Visualização_interativa.ipynb)
[![Binder](https://mybinder.org/badge_logo.svg)](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/leobezerra/pandas-zero/master/)
-->

Commit message:

[README] en: data analysis and visualization

en/README.md, after:

# Data science before coding

This repository was planned for those who don't know how to code, but work or want to work with data science 🙃

> If you already code and want a repo with a faster pace, check out [this one](https://github.com/ivanovitchm/datascience_one_2019_1) 😎

### Disclaimer

This is a collaborative repository, created by the students of [Instituto Metrópole Digital](imd.ufrn.br) from [UFRN](ufrn.br).

The author of each notebook is properly acknowledged 😉 

## Choosing a tool

Several tools are available for this profile.

In general, they can be grouped into GUI tools and CLI tools:
- GUI (graphical user interface): All the user interaction is done graphically. These are software like Google Spreadsheets and [Orange3](https://orange.biolab.si). 
- CLI (command-line interface): User interaction is done through a programming language. The main open source languages used in data science are Python, R, and Julia.

A very nice alternative that gathers a bit of both worlds are interactive notebooks, originally from project Jupyter and currently supported also by Google Colaboratory.

[This post](https://medium.com/@leobezerra_90682/python-r-messi-and-cristiano-d2b5278dbd5a) discusses the main supported languages.

In this repo, we will use notebooks with the Python ecossystem and its main library, Pandas.

> The whole material was planned so you don't need to learn how to code, but if you do want to, check out this [this repo](https://github.com/leobezerra/python-zero).

## Meeting Pandas

#### [[jonathanjalles]](https://github.com/jonathanjalles)[[leobezerra]](https://github.com/leobezerra) First steps
[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/leobezerra/pandas-zero/blob/master/en/notebooks/First_steps.ipynb)
[![Binder](https://mybinder.org/badge_logo.svg)](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/leobezerra/pandas-zero/master/)

https://github.com/leobezerra/pandas-zero/blob/master/en/notebooks/Data_analysis_and_presentation.ipynb

#### [[jonathanjalles]](https://github.com/jonathanjalles)[[eBetcel]](https://github.com/eBetcel) Data analysis and visualization
[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/leobezerra/pandas-zero/blob/master/en/notebooks/Data_analysis_and_visualization.ipynb)
[![Binder](https://mybinder.org/badge_logo.svg)](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/leobezerra/pandas-zero/master/)

<!--
#### [[natanlimas]](https://github.com/natanlimas) Dataframes como bancos de dados 

[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/leobezerra/pandas-zero/blob/master/pt-br/notebooks/DataframeBD.ipynb)
[![Binder](https://mybinder.org/badge_logo.svg)](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/leobezerra/pandas-zero/master/)

#### [[kallil12]](https://github.com/kallil12) Análise e apresentação de dados

[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/leobezerra/pandas-zero/blob/master/pt-br/notebooks/Visualizacao.ipynb)
[![Binder](https://mybinder.org/badge_logo.svg)](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/leobezerra/pandas-zero/master/)

#### [[mildo]](https://github.com/mildo) Extração, transformação e carga de dados (ETL)

[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/leobezerra/pandas-zero/blob/master/pt-br/notebooks/ETL.ipynb)
[![Binder](https://mybinder.org/badge_logo.svg)](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/leobezerra/pandas-zero/master/)

> Os notebooks acima foram originalmente criados pelos autores indicados e posteriormente revisados com a adição de conteúdos de múltiplos autores deste repositório.

## Trabalhando com múltiplas bases de dados

Uma das possibilidades que ferramentas CLI abre é trabalhar com múltiplas bases de dados ao mesmo tempo.

Os notebooks abaixo são alguns exemplos de análises que agregam informações espalhadas em múltiplas bases.

#### [[leobezerra]](https://github.com/leobezerra) Unindo informações de múltiplas bases
[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/leobezerra/pandas-zero/blob/master/pt-br/notebooks/UFRN-diversidade.ipynb)
[![Binder](https://mybinder.org/badge_logo.svg)](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/leobezerra/pandas-zero/master/)

#### [[leobezerra]](https://github.com/leobezerra) Cruzando informações de múltiplas bases
[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/leobezerra/pandas-zero/blob/master/pt-br/notebooks/UFRN-disciplinas.ipynb)
[![Binder](https://mybinder.org/badge_logo.svg)](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/leobezerra/pandas-zero/master/)

## Explorando seus dados

Uma parte essencial do processo de ciência de dados é investigar de forma exploratória os seus dados.

Os notebooks a seguir apresentam conceitos importantes sobre distribuições, relações entre dados e análise interativa de dados.

#### [[kallil12]](https://github.com/kallil12) Visualizando e identificando distribuições
[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/leobezerra/pandas-zero/blob/master/pt-br/notebooks/Distribuição_Dados.ipynb)
[![Binder](https://mybinder.org/badge_logo.svg)](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/leobezerra/pandas-zero/master/)

#### [[mildo]](https://github.com/mildo) Relações entre características
[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/leobezerra/pandas-zero/blob/master/pt-br/notebooks/Relações.ipynb)
[![Binder](https://mybinder.org/badge_logo.svg)](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/leobezerra/pandas-zero/master/)

#### [[jonathanjalles]](https://github.com/jonathanjalles) Interagindo visualmente com dados
[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/leobezerra/pandas-zero/blob/master/pt-br/notebooks/Visualização_interativa.ipynb)
[![Binder](https://mybinder.org/badge_logo.svg)](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/leobezerra/pandas-zero/master/)
-->
